In this video I'll explain the concept of maximum transmission unit and the effect that it has on the
performance of our network.
So let's just start out by taking a look at an example scenario where the ESX host we have an ESX host
and a virtual machine running on that host and that virtual machine is going to generate some sort of
network traffic.
OK so here on the left side of the screen we have our Yes exile's and within that ESX host I have some
virtual machines that are running.
So let's go ahead and create a virtual machine here and my VM is going to be generating some sort of
network traffic that's going to be sent out of the hose and into the physical network.
So here we see the ESX hoses connected to a physical switch.
And so as VM one generates that traffic we're going to have an empty new configuration on the virtual
switch.
Now the empty view specifies basically how many bytes is how many bytes and Ethernet frame can contain.
So if we are empty you at let's say 9000 we're going to have really large frames but we're going to
have less friends.
And that's really the benefit of having a higher MT you is we don't actually have any less data that's
getting sent.
But we have fewer frames and every Ethan frame needs to get a source and destination back.
And there's other overhead associated with generating those frames so the fewer frames means less overhead.
And that's the big benefit of a higher MT view is that we can send fewer larger frames.
However it doesn't come without its drawbacks.
And one of the most important things is to make sure that we're properly configuring the MT You consistently
across our network.
So in this case let's assume that the physical switch has been configured with an empty 15:24 while
that empty view is significantly lower than what we've configured on our ESX host or our virtual switch.
So the result is we're going to have these really large frames hitting the physical switch frames that
are larger than the physical switch can actually handle.
So as these large frames leave the ESX I host and hit the physical switch.
They're going to be these jumbo frames these really big frames and the physical switches are going to
essentially say that's too big for me I can't handle a frame that's that large.
I have to now chop it up into smaller pieces.
Into a size that I can actually handle and this is all going to have to be done by that physical switch.
So just imagine that with every frame that a physical switch receives it now has to take that frame.
Break it up into smaller pieces.
Append headers on each of those little smaller frames before I can switch that traffic.
What do we think the effect on our physical switches going to be.
Well we know it's not going to be good.
Right.
That's obviously not going to be good because now my physical switch is going to be utilizing a whole
lot of CPQ resources to fragment and reassemble those frames.
And that's what occurs when we have a mis configured or mismatched amd you is fragmentation and re-assembly
the physical switch or whatever is properly configured isn't going to be able to receive that large
packet.
I kind of always equate this to let's say that I have four guitars and I want to ship those four guitars
to a friend of mine who lives in California.
So I take those four guitars.
I package them up in a really big box.
All four of them and I put it down in my driveway and I wait for the mailman to show up and he comes
in he looks at it he says that box is too big I can't fit it in the back of the mail truck.
We're going to have to open up that box put all four of those guitars into individual boxes put new
addresses on each of those individual boxes to make sure they all make it to the right place.
And then I can put them all in my truck.
Well the process of taking all those guitars out Reebok's think I'm a readdressing.
That's going to be a really lengthy process.
And if the mailman has to do that at every house he's not can do a very good job.
That's kind of like my physical switch in this scenario.
It's a physical switch is constantly breaking frames up into smaller chunks and reassembling them and
readdressing them that's going to really hamper the performance of that physical switch.
So important takeaway to make sure that you keep in mind when we talk about maximum transmission unit.
Is that your network is configured consistently.